Committee: UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme)
Topic: Sustainable infrastructure in developing nations (MDG 7)
Rationale:
Sustainable development is imperative in the building of a sustainable world. As
infrastructure contributes to 79% of global carbon emissions, it is important for developing
nations to build their infrastructure in a way that limits any more of a carbon footprint (UNEP). It
should also be built to withstand climate disaster, such as wildfires, floods and hurricanes, which
has cost an estimated 2 trillion dollars in the United States alone (NOAA). A strong and reliable
infrastructure is the key to achieving all Sustainable Development Goals. When countries have
built infrastructure to be sustainable it allows not only for a continuation of the fight against
climate change but will also allow for greater economic stability in the future for these
developing countries, as supported by Brookings findings that sustainable infrastructure reduces
poverty (Brookings).
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is urgently calling for more
sustainable infrastructure. UNEP and the Climate Action Network and International Institute for
Sustainable Development are both advocating for the shift from high carbon emitting
infrastructure to lower carbon producing and more sustainable infrastructure. They believe the
intensifying climate crisis will only worsen if the infrastructure, which is currently being built, is
not built to be sustainable. They want the UN to make policies that influence the current
development and urge that it be built to be sustainable. If developing countries don't work to be
sustainable then we lose the ability to fight climate change. While most developed countries have
2
built their cities on unsustainable and harmful infrastructure, developing countries, if they choose
to do so, have the ability to build in a way that helps mitigate this climate disaster. If developing
countries don't build their infrastructure in a sustainable manner that directly affects SDG 11 -
Sustainable cities and communities and indirectly affects SDG 9 - Building resilient
infrastructure. Promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation (“Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs): 17 Goals for Sustainable Development”). Current media attention
to climate disasters and rapid analysis of climate data have raised awareness for these climate
changes and have propelled people to act and advocate for change within our
communities.(Quiñones). When these communities advocate for change it puts pressure on local
and national governments to initiate change.
Background of the Issue:
Infrastructure has become a vital part of governments, societies and empires throughout
human history. But as humanity developed, they have taken an ever-increasing toll on our
environment (National Geographic). Infrastructure destroys vital habitats, contributes to
pollution and depletes resources (Sustainability Directory). This now brings up the question of
how our structures affect the world and how to reduce its effects. There has been a lot of
successful progress in the past when it comes to sustainable infrastructure in developing
countries, although quite unevenly distributed (meaning that parts of countries, cities, states, and
towns have more access to the developed outcomes, such as electricity, electronics, energy, and
products of manufacturing and innovative ideas and outcomes (United Nations.) This can be
3
ascribed to the wealth of the residents, locations of the factories and stores, and laws (such as
redlining) that benefit a demographic more than the other (Northrop et al.) This then leads to
certain communities being more infrastructurally stable than others.
The issue of sustainable infrastructure was first brought up in 1987 when the Brundtland
Commission defined sustainability as “development that meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs” (Dixit). Since 1987, the
Brundtland Report has provided the public with a simple and clear explanation of what it means
to keep sustainable infrastructure, and to allow the present population and future generations to
be able to live in a sustainable world. This is what a sustainable infrastructure is supposed built
in means of. Infrastructures should benefit the current people using them, but also making sure
that it will still be there to benefit the future generations. In 1992, Agenda 21 was produced with
the goal to help countries with poverty, environmental damage, environmental preservation, and
anything involving the community/infrastructure (UN).
In 2000, the Millennium Declaration was adopted by 189 member countries of the United
Nations. The Millennium Declaration commits world leaders to combat disease, poverty,
discrimination against women, illiteracy, hunger, and environmental degradation. This helps keep
countries with established infrastructure from neglecting the foundation of their country. It also
established a link between lower poverty rates and infrastructure. In 2002, the World Summit on
Sustainable Development promoted partnerships between private and public organizations as a
way to help with big and expensive projects that involved the infrastructure of developing
countries (European Environment Agency). These two moments were very important for
establishing the SDGs (Sustainable Development goals). The Millennium Declaration was a
main contributor to the establishing of time-bound targets and fostering partnerships.
4
In 2015, the Sustainable Development goals, which included goals 6, 7, 9, 11, and 13
(which address clean water, affordable clean energy, innovative infrastructure, sustainable
communities, and climate action, respectively) were adopted in order for the preservation of
international and national stability (Lawcode). Organisations like the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund, and the United Nations Environmental Programme, along with
countries like China, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, and
the Netherlands, have all played major roles in the development and shaping of the sustainable
infrastructure in developing countries. The reasons the United States of America, China, and the
United Kingdom were so involved with the shaping of the Sustainable Infrastructure in
developing countries are due to their colonial histories, experiences with keeping infrastructure
stable, governmental aid programs, and their wealthy economies. The severity of the economic
gaps between countries has influenced the growth, evolution, and development of sustainable
infrastructure in developing countries. With the improvements and developments in technology,
such as SBTC (Skill-biased Technological changes), which are new technologies that improve
productivity and the need for skilled employees because they replace mediocre workers, thus
causing increased salaries and more inequality (Schmitt et al.). These technologies and
automations in corporations are replacements of routine work jobs. These replacements cause
changes, some of which include the use of renewable energies, like solar and wind power to go
up, implementing cost-efficient and environmentally effective technologies, such as LED
lighting, and leaning away from the dependence on fossil fuels (Northrop et al.). This has helped
with the protection and preservation of the environment and of societies all over the world but
has put people out of jobs, jobs like miners and gas station employees.
5
Contemporary Evidence:
Many companies and organizations are coming together and taking part in helping new
and developing countries with sustainable infrastructure. Organizations like the World Bank
Group gave around "$13 billion to enable renewable energy generation" (World Bank Group), to
encourage and build renewable energy sources with the hope of developing sustainable
infrastructure in new countries. Other companies or nonprofits are working with the UNEP to
help develop systems to cool down households, without leaving a massive carbon footprint. The
nonprofit based in Switzerland, BASE, or Basel Agency for Sustainable Energy, is working on
creating a cooling system to help cool down households without having a big environmental
impact. BASE believes in something called CaaS, or "Cooling as a Service" (Forbes), however
they are trying their best to develop this new technology. BASE has already talked about
themselves, saying "Now imagine a scenario where a solution offers both a cost mitigation
measure and an efficient cooling pathway. That’s CaaS for you." (Forbes) This report given by
BASE themselves helps people understand how some nonprofits or organizations are striving for
environmentally and internationally friendly options to help developing countries. Some other
countries, like Finland, have declared themselves the leaders in achieving the MDGs. Compared
to all of the other countries, they are the closest to actually completing their goals, and on a
diplomatic scale they fully endorse the Development goals, and are putting in policies or laws to
complete them.
Although countries are trying their best to achieve success, there are still multiple
roadblocks in the way. Things like money have impacts on missions to create sustainable
infrastructure in new and developing countries. A report done by PPIAF (Public-Private
6
Infrastructure Advisory Facility), said that "92% of SDG targets are achievable through
infrastructure investment" (PPIAF), and that this would take roughly "2.6 trillion dollars"
(PPIAF) each year until 2030 to even grasp the idea of achieving net zero emissions by 2050.
Most of this money would have to go towards sustainable infrastructure. However, this doesn't
mean that private investors and companies aren't trying to actively help smaller/new and
developing countries with sustainable infrastructure. Many people are sceptical of investing
because they aren't guaranteed that their money invested will be given back over time. Helping
other countries could also lead to political issues such as nations targeting each other because of
land disputes. In a report done by the United Nations University, reporting about funding,
"Various mechanisms are currently being used to stimulate private investment in sustainable
infrastructure. Most of these efforts involve some form of ‘blended finance', the use of
concessional or near-concessional funding to reduce private sector risks associated with
infrastructure projects" (UNU Merit). Concessionals, or near concessionals, are long term
payments with low interest to fund the research and development of technology. The US,
Canada, Japan, Germany, and other developed countries are funding developing countries such
as developing islands in the Caribbean to help obtain renewable energy sources. This will help
improve the clean water availability, green energy, and public health in these countries.
The relevancy of this issue to this day still stands because it helps other countries
develop, while also helping the world develop new technology that reduces carbon emissions.
This topic needs to be discussed because of the constantly changing climate and other factors
such as carbon emissions and green energy. This is also an important topic to discuss because of
the people being affected in these new and developing countries. According to a report by
Brookings, "even the lack of basic services remains an ongoing challenge" (Brookings), and this
7
poses a major threat to the safety of all of the people living in these growing countries. If people
can't be guaranteed basic services through sustainable infrastructure or something similar, major
threats, and major problems, occur to the people in those countries. That may include worse
health of the overall population, and available resources being restrictive. There are also many
things in place such as MDB'S, which could be considered a financing plan to achieve these
goals. The IDB (Inter-American Development Bank) has helped outline the goals and plans laid
out by all countries/private investors etc. The IDB has said that, "MDBs have committed to
expand support for countries and other clients to integrate climate mitigation and adaptation (...)
Increasing concessional financing" (IDB) Continuous reports about this topic keep on proving
how money and the economy is a big player in achieving these many goals laid out by both the
SDGs and countries. Many of the SDG's and MDG's are aimed to be completed by 2030,
however based on data from the Sustainable Development report, no countries have reached the
goal, with Finland at a score of 87.02 out of 100 (100 being the goal has been reached), and
Iceland at 80.79. MDB's also show how concessionals are helpful, because of how it provides
funding for goals to be achieved, hopefully by 2050. However, because of low funding and not
that much involvement, progress is slow, but remains hopeful.
Directive:
Sustainable infrastructure has two sides. On the one hand, climate change is increasing in
severity, and climate disasters are becoming more frequent and deadly, especially for developing
nations (NASA). Delegates must consider how infrastructure can contribute to and protect from
climate change. On the other hand, infrastructure is a cornerstone of communities. When it’s not
built to last, it can cost communities and countries dearly (Sahabi). Delegates are encouraged to
8
take both of these issues into account and work to address concerns about both infrastructures'
effect on ecosystems and communities. Delegates must maintain diplomacy and work towards
resolution papers implementing collaborative and realistic solutions. Delegates are reminded that
UNEP cannot directly finance infrastructure projects, but can shape partnerships and norms.
Delegates are also reminded to not discuss current world issues, Delegates must only discuss the
topic at hand. Delegates should consider the following questions during debate:
● Does climate change affect developing countries differently than developed ones?
● How can delegates build infrastructure to support local ecosystems?
● In what ways do current infrastructure choices in developing countries increase or
decrease emissions?
● What are the best methods for developed countries to provide aid to developing ones?
How can the committee ensure it protects national ownership?
● Is the climate a top priority to consider when building infrastructure?
● Does building infrastructure cheaply end up costing more in the long run?
● How can communities lacking vital infrastructure gain access to it?
Delegates:
1. Afghanistan - Afghanistan was a formidable player in this problem pre-2021, before the
Taliban overthrowing the government. Because of the sudden shift of governance,
Afghanistan has its priorities set on many other things, however sustainable development
is still in pursuit, but may be more difficult to pursue due to political tension. Afghanistan
would vote Positively in the UN, however their seat has been suspended because of
unpaid fees.
9
Afghanistan - The World Factbook
Afghanistan’s Environmental Engagement Under the Taliban
FP129: Afghanistan Rural Energy Market Transformation Initiative – Strengthening Resilience
of Livelihoods Through Sustainable Energy Access | Green Climate Fund
Afghanistan - MDG achievement report
2. Austria - Austria is a major leader in the development of sustainable infrastructure,
spearheading many projects like producing green houses for non profits or people in
need. Austria recognizes that the EU has some problems with energy consumption and
CO2 emissions, however they are willing to jump in and use their cutting edge
technology to help out with reduction of climate harm and energy consumption. Austria
would vote strongly in favor of the MDGs, and has tried their best to implement them as
well.
Austria - The World Factbook
Sustainable Building Made in Austria
Austria - MDG agenda
3. Bangladesh - Bangladesh is trying its best to meet its goal in MDG 7, or sustainable
infrastructure in developing countries. Based on the report given by the MDG report
cover, Bangladesh is working towards their goals, however with some more recent things
like deforestation for agriculture, Bangladesh is uncertain when they are going to meet
the goals of MDG 7. Bangladesh would vote strongly for the MDGs and implement them
in their country.
Bangladesh - World Factbook
How the Climate Crisis Is Impacting Bangladesh
10
Bangladesh MDG 7 report
Bangladesh - Position Speech
4. Basel Agency for Sustainable Energy (Base) - BASE is a Swiss nonprofit, with a big
amount of knowledge and opportunity in their field. They are working together with other
nonprofits or organizations with their technology that helps with climate and energy
consumption, to hopefully make sustainable infrastructure in developing countries.
BASE, however, does not have a seat in the UN, but they would vote for the
implementation of sustainable infrastructure in new and developing countries.
Urban Renewable Energy & Energy Efficiency Investment Cameroon, Burkina Faso, Ghana,
Kenya & Nigeria | BASE
BASE overview
Remitenergy Project in Haiti | BASE
5. Burkina Faso - Burkina Faso is a country placed right in the middle of Africa, and in its
countries it faces many challenges regarding climate and humanitarian aid. Burkina Faso
is in need of other organizations such as the UN to help it get back on track towards being
a sustainable country, and eradicate their humanitarian and climate challenges. Burkina
Faso would vote strongly for MDG 7, and has shown in previous meetings their position
on this topic.
Burkina Faso | Joint Steering Committee to Advance Humanitarian and Development
Collaboration
Burkina Faso - Meeting
Burkina Faso - The World Factbook
11
6. Cambodia - Cambodia is a developing country. It has worked on developing its
infrastructure in a way that is sustainable and allows it to continue to thrive and try to
increase its sustainability. It has constantly shown its growth potential, by decreasing the
amount of people in its slums. Cambodia has shown that they vote in favor of the MDG
7, they have shown this through constant voting in favor of climate goals that can help
the country.
Cambodia - The World Factbook
Cambodia’s Infrastructure Market Update and Outlook
Cambodia - MDG 7 stance
7. China - China has a strong foundation to help themselves support others and themselves
on sustainable energy and infrastructure. They have been able to decrease the amount of
people living in slums, increase electricity availability, and provide more and more
purified water. China would vote in favor for the MDGs and climate support
China - The World Factbook
China - MDG 7 report
China - Progress report
8. Denmark - Denmark is a big player in this battle even though it is a small country. It
provides a formidable role in the research and problem solving of climate challenges, as
well as providing funding for these things. Denmark would vote in favor in the UN with a
strong liking of climate resolutions
Denmark - The World Factbook
12
Global responsibility | The Danish approach and commitment
Denmark - Climate and Air
9. Ethiopia - Ethiopia is a strong player in sustainable innovation and infrastructure.
Ethiopia was able to decrease their mortality and HIV rates and related deaths, and they
are on the track to reducing many more things. They have begun this "Healing process",
however they still have many more things to improve. Ethiopia would vote in favor of
Climate resolutions, making significant progress since they were introduced.
Ethiopia - The World Factbook
Ethiopia - MDG 7 stance
Ethiopia - MDG report
10. Evoqua Water Technologies Corp - Evoqua water technologies corp has improved the
water quality and the energy sustainability of water purification. Evoqua water
technologies corp has been able to help people get clean water, and decrease the cost of
these appliances in everyday classes. Evoqua Water Technologies Corp would most likely
vote in favor because they make technology for water purification and reduced energy
consumption.
Evoqua Water Technologies LLC
Evoqua is Now Part of Xylem
Evoqua Water Technologies releases 2022 Sustainability Report
13
11. Finland - Finland has been a good player in trying to conserve their climate and create
sustainable infrastructure. They are using their vast amounts of trees and forests to help
them mitigate climate challenges, and they are using their forests to also help themselves
achieve the MDG's and SDG's. Finland would vote in favor of climate resolutions.
Finland - The World Factbook
Finalnd - UN
12. Germany - Germany is located in Central Europe. Due to its location and its close
proximity to other countries like France, Netherlands, and England, they have grown and
developed through the help of their neighbors. Unfortunately, they still are in need of help
regarding their infrastructure due to underinvestment. Although the country is currently
addressing its problems, help from wealthier countries could benefit the country.
Germany voted in favor of climate policies in the UN.
https://www.cnbc.com/2025/05/30/could-german-infrastructure-be-the-next-hot-investment
Germany - The World Factbook
Germany - Agenda
13. Haiti - Haiti is located in the Caribbean and is close in proximity to Cuba, Jamaica, and
the Bahamas. Because of Haiti being located on the boundary of a major tectonic plate,
it’s prone to earthquakes. Therefore, the country’s infrastructure is in dire need of help
from other countries in regards to its infrastructure. Haiti would vote in favor of climate
resolutions.
14
Crisis in Haiti: What You Need to Know | Project HOPE | Advancing Global Health & Saving
Lives
Haiti - The World Factbook
Haiti - report
14. Iceland - Iceland is located in Northern Europe and its location is a key part of its
development. Because it has close proximity to North America and to Europe, the
country has an abundance of access to resources and help from two very wealthy
countries. Even though they have many resources, Iceland still needs help with its
infrastructure regarding its funding gap for maintenance and upgrades. Iceland fully
endorses climate resolutions, trying their best to achieve the goals.
Transport, Infrastructure and Building - ClimateChangePost
Iceland - The World Factbook
Iceland - Position
15. Ireland - Ireland is located in Europe and is bordered by England. Despite its close
proximity to England, Ireland has acknowledged that it needs help with its infrastructure,
especially when it comes to housing and transportation. Ireland votes in favor of climate
resolutions being proposed by the UN.
Ireland Launches $216 Billion Infrastructure Plan
Ireland - The World Factbook
Ireland - Position
15
16. Japan - Japan is located in East Asia and is close in proximity to China, Russia, North
Korea, and South Korea. Despite its close proximity to many different countries, with
their rapidly growing population and economy, their infrastructure is neglected. Japan
would benefit from help from other countries. Japan has consistently voted in favor of
climate resolutions, being able to take action and do well on trying to solve their
problems.
Japan’s infrastructure status and investments - We Build Value
Japan - The World Factbook
Japan - Overview
17. Lesotho - Lesotho is located in Southern Africa and is encircled by South Africa. The
country needs significant help with its infrastructure, especially with its energy and
transportation. Lesotho is already working on solving the problem of its pollution and is
working to provide its country with clean water. Lesotho would vote in favor of climate
resolutions and has consistently voted in favor of these resolutions.
Lesotho Overview: Development news, research, data | World Bank
Lesotho - The World Factbook
Lesotho - Report
18. Netherlands -
The Netherlands believes in progressive sustainable development. They believe that the key to a
sustainable country is built in its infrastructure. They are willing to help developing countries
because they believe that if developing nations are built on something that will last then the
16
world has a better chance of survival. The Netherlands would vote in favor of climate
resolutions, voting in favor most of the time.
Netherlands - The World Factbook
Netherlands - MDG 7 Leadership
Netherlands - Positions
19. Niger -
Niger is a developing country. While they have built up their country they have enacted several
policies to make sure that their country is built sustainably. Despite their goals they have
difficulties procuring funds for their development goals. They would need help from other
countries, mostly financially, to be able to complete their development goals. Niger would vote
in favor of climate resolutions in a UN meeting.
Niger - The World Factbook
Niger - MDG report
UN - Report
20. Norway -
Norway is considered one of the world leaders for sustainable infrastructure. They help others
with a combined effort of green incentives and continuous funding for others. They want to build
the world off of sustainable infrastructure. Norway would vote in favor of climate resolutions in
the UN at a meeting.
Norway - The World Factbook
Norway - MDG report
17
Norway - Report
21. Singapore -
Singapore is one of the most advanced countries in the field of sustainable infrastructure,
building large skyscrapers and buildings to accommodate the highly dense population. Singapore
has also helped other countries with their sustainable infrastructure goals. They do it through
technical assistance, knowledge sharing, and green finance initiatives. They would be willing to
help others in their pursuit of their sustainable development.
Singapore - The World Factbook
Singapore - MDG report
22. South Sudan -
South Sudan, while wanting to improve their infrastructure, have faced serious setbacks due to
the increasing political strife and overdependence in oil. They would be unable to help any other
countries and would most likely benefit from financial support. They are in favor of climate
actions and would vote for resolutions addressing climate change.
South Sudan - The World Factbook
South Sudan MDG report 2012
23. State of Palestine -Due to the current conflict the State of Palestine has been unable to
focus on the development of sustainable infrastructure. The increasing conflict has
damaged key infrastructure, such as their water and sanitation supply. With the current
conflict they are unable to fix these things and would need help from more developed and
18
financially stable countries. They are in favor of climate action, although likely unable to
provide aid with their involvement in global conflicts.
(Backgrounder) Rubble, Control, Dependence: What Infrastructure Tells Us about
Israel/Palestine by Sophia Stamatopoulou-Robbins - American Anthropological Association
24. Sweden -
Sweden is a leader in sustainable development. For example they want to achieve carbon
neutrality by 2045. They have enacted policies that support sustainable development, such as
enacting the policy InfraSweden, which supports the building of sustainable development. They
are willing to work with others to improve the world's sustainable development, and would vote
in favor of related resolutions.
Sweden - The World Factbook
Sweden - Swedens major role in MDG 7
25. Switzerland - Switzerland has taken numerous leaps to implement and promote
sustainable infrastructure. They believe in the importance of promoting sustainable
infrastructure around the world. Global Infrastructure Basel is a non-profit organization
based out of the country that provides financing opportunities for sustainable
development. The government has worked with the World Bank on the Sustainable Cities
program to support the construction of green urban infrastructure. They would vote in
favor of most climate and sustainability resolutions.
Switzerland - The World Factbook
Infrastructure & Quality and Finance
19
IFC and Switzerland Expand Partnership to Build Climate-Resilient Urban Infrastructure in
Emerging Markets
26. Taiwan - Taiwan believes that sustainable infrastructure is a key facet in their
development, having implemented numerous programs to improve the sustainability of
structures throughout the country. The Forward-looking Infrastructure Development
Program is a governmental program to fund sustainable infrastructure across important
categories such as digital infrastructure, urban infrastructure and child care facilities.
They have also set the goal of zero emissions by 2050, demonstrating their commitment
to sustainability. Taiwan is open to the development of infrastructure solutions to combat
climate change.
Taiwan - The World Factbook
National Development Council-Forward-looking Infrastructure Development Program
Why Has Taiwan, a Nonparty to the Paris Agreement, Been Proactively Addressing Climate
Change? - Institute of Developing Economies
27. United Kingdom - The United Kingdom has recognized infrastructures ability to
contribute to climate change and has taken steps to prevent its impact. Buildings account
for 23% of emissions in the country, and they are implementing solutions such as
reducing the amount of energy used to build railways, and committing to a 50% reduction
in emissions. The UK has also collaborated with the Inter-American Development Bank
to promote sustainable infrastructure development in Latin America and the Caribbean.
20
They are in favor of providing aid to develop sustainable infrastructure in developing
countries.
United Kingdom - The World Factbook
UK Sustainable Infrastructure Program (UK SIP) | NDC Partnership
Sustainable infrastructure article business.gov.uk international
28. United States of America - The United States has taken many strides towards
sustainable infrastructure. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has
helped themselves and many others with the effort of protecting our environment and
creating sustainable infrastructure, while also helping others. However the US's stance
has differed between the years because of leadership. Currently, the United States would
be unlikely to vote in favor of sustainable infrastructure or climate-related projects,
especially those it would have to invest in.
United States - The World Factbook
US - MDG 7
29. World Bank - The world bank has a strong background on this issue, and has for many
years helped people and other countries. The world bank has many ideas in plan, and also
helps monitor and track many things and helps provide updates for the UN about the
countries progress on their goals. They are in favor of providing aid and helping to
develop sustainable infrastructure in developing countries.
The World Bank Group’s Role in Global Development | Council on Foreign Relations
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
21
30. Yemen - Yemen is trying its best to achieve sustainable infrastructure and energy,
however they have run into a massive challenge. This challenge is the fact that they have
poor water sanitation. This puts them in a major challenge because it provides them with
one more problem they have to solve. As Yemen has a high percentage of its population
in poverty, and is vulnerable to climate change, Yemen is in favor of sustainable
infrastructure development.
Yemen - The World Factbook
Yemen - MDG report
Building resilience to climate change in Yemen – one road at… | UNOPS.
Resources for Delegates:
1) UNEP-Sustainable Infrastructure Investment
a) Sustainable Infrastructure Investment | UNEP - UN Environment Programme
b) This source from the United Nations Environmental Programme discusses the
importance of sustainable infrastructure as well as challenges in the development
of sustainable infrastructure. It can help delegations get a general idea of the
issue.
2) World Bank-Infrastructure Overview
a) Infrastructure Overview
22
b) This source from the World Bank helps describe the goals and challenges of
building sustainable infrastructure, and why it should be of top priority. This
resource will help delegates get a basic overview on the topic.
3) World Bank-Infrastructure Challenges and How PPPs Can Help Public Private
Partnership.
a) Infrastructure Challenges and How PPPs Can Help Public Private Partnership
b) This source from the World Bank explains the challenges that come with
infrastructure and how public-private partnerships can be beneficial for projects.
This will help delegate grasp the negatives to infrastructure.
4) UN-Durabilité
a) Durabilité | Nations Unies
b) This source from the UN dives into the Sustainable development goals a little
more, and provides delegates a deeper definition of sustainable development.
5) The University of Cambridge-Sustainable Infrastructure: An Overview
a) https://www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/system/files/documents/sustainable-infrastructure-an-
overview.pdf
b) This source from the University of Cambridge gives a great explanation of what
sustainable infrastructure is and gives a basic overview of the topic. This can help
delegates understand what sustainable infrastructure really means.
6) UN-Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
a) Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure - United Nations Sustainable
Development
23
b) This source from the UN describes in depth about Gola 9-Build resilient
infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
and gives delegates a better understanding about this goal.
7) UN Digital Library- Report of the World Commission on Environment and Development
: note / by the Secretary-General.
a) Report of the World Commission on Environment and Development : note / by
the Secretary-General.
b) This source from the UN Digital Library describes and explains what the World
Commission on Environment and Development is. This can be useful for
delegates that need to have a good understanding of what the WCED is.
8) Forbes- How One UNEP Partner Non-Profit Is Making Cooling As A Service ‘Cool’
a) How One UNEP Partner Non-Profit Is Making Cooling As A Service ‘Cool’
b) This source from Forbes details how UNEP has used innovative ideas to help
move along sustainable development. This source will provide delegates with
ideas to help them jumpstart solutions.
9) Gihub-Sustainable Infrastructure
a) Sustainable Infrastructure
b) This source from Gihub provides a more in-depth explanation of sustainable
infrastructure.
10) United Nations University- How investment in developing countries’ infrastructure can
be accelerated – and why this is crucial for the SDGs
a) How investment in developing countries’ infrastructure can be accelerated – and
why this is crucial for the SDGs | United Nations University
24
b) This source from the United Nations University gives a great insight on how
investments in developing countries and their infrastructure can be accelerated
and why the acceleration is important for the SDGs.
11) The CIA World Factbook
a) Countries - The World Factbook
b) This resource provides delegates with statistics on their respective countries on
things such as GDP, hazards to their populations
Works Cited
Bank, The World. “Infrastructure Overview.” World Bank, 12 May 2025,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/infrastructure/overview. Accessed 17 November
2025.
Bank, World. “Infrastructure Challenges and How PPPs Can Help Public Private
Partnership.” World Bank PPP, 2025,
https://ppp.worldbank.org/infrastructure-challenges-and-how-ppps-can-help. Accessed 17
November 2025.
Benchmark, World. “The impact of multinationals in developing countries.” The impact
of multinationals in developing countries, vol. 1, no. 1, 2020, p. 32. Online,
25
https://assets.worldbenchmarkingalliance.org/app/uploads/2020/09/Impact-of-multination
als-in-developing-countries.pdf.
Brookings. “Delivering on sustainable infrastructure for better development and better
climate.” Delivering on sustainable infrastructure for better development and better
climate, 2016,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/delivering-on-sustainable-infrastructure-for-better-dev
elopment-and-better-climate/#:~:text=Sustainable%20infrastructure%20promotes%20sus
tainable%20consumption,economic%20burdens%20in%20the%20future. Accessed 10 11
2025.
Brookings. “Prioritize people, not projects: Addressing the harms of legacy infrastructure
in the COVID-19 recovery.” Prioritize people, not projects: Addressing the harms of
legacy infrastructure in the COVID-19 recovery, 2020,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/prioritize-people-not-projects-addressing-the-harms-o
f-legacy-infrastructure-in-the-covid-19-recovery/#:~:text=And%20increasingly%2C%20l
ower%2Dincome%20households,in%20urban%20areas%20as%20well. Accessed 10 11
2025.
Cambridge, Univerity of. “Sustainable Infrastructure: An Overview.” Placing
infrastructure in the context of sustainable development, 01 01 2025,
https://www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/system/files/documents/sustainable-infrastructure-an-overvie
w.pdf.
CIA. “Countries - The World Factbook.” CIA, 2025,
https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/. Accessed 17 November 2025.
26
Das, Sanjit. “Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).” World Health Organization
(WHO), United Nations, 19 February 2018,
https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/millennium-development-goals-(mdgs)
. Accessed 4 December 2025.
“ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE FOREIGN INVESTMENT TO THE LDCs:
OPTIONS FOR SUPPORT.” ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE FOREIGN
INVESTMENT TO THE LDCs: OPTIONS FOR SUPPORT, 3 11 2018,
https://www.un.org/ohrlls/sites/www.un.org.ohrlls/files/occasional-paper-no-3.pdf.
Finckenstein, Valentina. “How International Aid Can Do More Harm than Good: The
Case of Lebanon.” LSE, 1 2 2021,
https://www.lse.ac.uk/ideas/Assets/Documents/updates/LSE-IDEAS-How-International-
Aid-Can-Do-More-Harm-Than-Good.pdf. Accessed 17 November 2025.
Finland in the UN. “Sustainable Development and Global Development Issues.” Finland
in the UN, 2025,
https://finlandabroad.fi/web/un/sustainable-development-and-global-development-issues#
:~:text=Finland%20also%20advocates%20mainstreaming%20of,related%20and%20soci
al%20development%20issue. Accessed 07 12 2025.
Group, World Bank. “Getting to Know the World Bank Group.” World Bank, 2012,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2012/07/26/getting_to_know_theworldbank.
Accessed 17 November 2025.
IADB. “MDBs to Expand Support for Countries Seeking Climate-Resilient Sustainable
Transition.” MDBs to Expand Support for Countries Seeking Climate-Resilient
Sustainable Transition, 2022,
27
https://www.iadb.org/en/news/mdbs-expand-support-countries-seeking-climate-resilient-s
ustainable-transition#:~:text=MDBs%20have%20committed%20to%20expand,benefits%
20or%20verified%20emissions%20reductions. Accessed 10 11 2025.
IISD. “What is sustainable infrastructure? - Sustainable Asset Valuation (SAVi).”
International Institute for Sustainable Development, 2025,
https://www.iisd.org/savi/faq/what-is-sustainable-infrastructure-2/. Accessed 17
November 2025.
Kain, Joseph W. “Prioritize people, not projects: Addressing the harms of legacy
infrastructure in the COVID-19 recovery.” Brookings, Brookings, 17 12 2020,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/prioritize-people-not-projects-addressing-the-harms-o
f-legacy-infrastructure-in-the-covid-19-recovery/#:~:text=And%20increasingly%2C%20l
ower%2Dincome%20households,in%20urban%20areas%20as%20well. Accessed 10 11
2025.
Lawcode. “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS): 17 goals for sustainable
development.” Lawcode, 2025,
https://www.lawcode.eu/en/blog/sustainable-development-goals-sdgs/. Accessed 17
November 2025.
Liang, Nellie. “Technology and the future of growth: Challenges of change | Brookings.”
Brookings Institution, 25 February 2020,
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/technology-and-the-future-of-growth-challenges-of-c
hange/. Accessed 17 November 2025.
Liang, Nellie. “Technology and the future of growth: Challenges of change | Brookings.”
Brookings Institution, 25 February 2020,
28
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/technology-and-the-future-of-growth-challenges-of-c
hange/. Accessed 17 November 2025.
N, U. “Sustainable Infrastructure Investment.” UNEP, 2025,
https://www.unep.org/topics/finance-and-economic-transformations/transforming-econo
mies/sustainable-infrastructure. Accessed 10 11 2025.
NASA. “Climate Change and the Developing World: A Disproportionate Impact –
USGLC.” U.S. Global Leadership Coalition,
https://www.usglc.org/blog/climate-change-and-the-developing-world-a-disproportionate
-impact/. Accessed 6 December 2025.
Nations, United. Digital library. 2025. Digital library,
https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/139811?ln=en&v=pdf.
Nations, United. “Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure - United Nations
Sustainable Development.” the United Nations, 2025,
https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/infrastructure-industrialization/. Accessed 17
November 2025.
.org, IDB. “MDBs to Expand Support for Countries Seeking Climate-Resilient
Sustainable Transition.” IDB, Iadb.org, 07 November 2022,
https://www.iadb.org/en/news/mdbs-expand-support-countries-seeking-climate-resilient-s
ustainable-transition#:~:text=MDBs%20have%20committed%20to%20expand,benefits%
20or%20verified%20emissions%20reductions. Accessed 10 11 2025.
Sahabi, Ali. “What is the Cost of Disaster?” Optimum Seismic, 21 November 2020,
https://www.optimumseismic.com/earthquake-preparedness/what-is-the-cost-of-disaster/.
Accessed December 1 2025.
29
Sharma, Gaurav. “How One UNEP Partner Non-Profit Is Making Cooling As A Service
'Cool.'” Forbes, 13 November 2025,
https://www.forbes.com/sites/gauravsharma/2025/11/13/how-one-unep-partner-non-profit
-is-making-cooling-as-a-service-cool/. Accessed 17 November 2025.
Social watch. “SDG implementation in Finland: well-earned congratulations; several
steps to be taken.” Social watch, 2018,
https://www2024.socialwatch.org/node/18074#:~:text=Sustainably%2Dproduced%20bio
fuels%20have%20a,carried%20out%20in%20other%20sectors. Accessed 07 12 2025.
“Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS): 17 goals for sustainable development.”
Lawcode, https://www.lawcode.eu/en/blog/sustainable-development-goals-sdgs/.
Accessed 17 November 2025.
Sustainable Devlopment Tracking. “Sustainable Development Report 2025.” Sustainable
Development Report 2025, 2025, https://dashboards.sdgindex.org/rankings/. Accessed 7
December 2025.
UN. “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS): 17 goals for sustainable development.”
Lawcode, https://www.lawcode.eu/en/blog/sustainable-development-goals-sdgs/.
Accessed 17 November 2025.
Unies, Nations. “Impact académique.” Nations Unies, 2025,
https://www.un.org/fr/impact-universitaire/durabilit%C3%A9. Accessed 10 11 2025.
United Nations. “Five ways media and journalists can support climate action while
tackling misinformation.” Five ways media and journalists can support climate action
while tackling misinformation, 2022,
https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/10/1129162#:~:text=%E2%80%9CFor%20example%2
30
C%20the%20World%20Weather,a%20vital%20tool%20for%20people. Accessed 10 11
2025.
United Nations, Model. “Sustainability | United Nations.” the United Nations, UN,
https://www.un.org/en/academic-impact/sustainability. Accessed 17 November 2025.
UNited Nations, Model. “Sustainable Development Goals: 17 Goals to Transform our
World | United Nations.” the United Nations, 2020,
https://www.un.org/en/exhibits/page/sdgs-17-goals-transform-world. Accessed 17
November 2025.
UNU Merit. “How investment in developing countries’ infrastructure can be accelerated
– and why this is crucial for the SDGs.” How investment in developing countries’
infrastructure can be accelerated – and why this is crucial for the SDGs, 2024,
https://unu.edu/merit/article/how-investment-in-developing-countries-infrastructure-can-
be-accelerated.
The World Bank. “Sustainable Infrastrucutre.” PPIAF, 15 4 2024,
https://www.gihub.org/sustainable-infrastructure/.
